people say wait a min how could the
world flood could it rain enough to
cover Mount Everest I was in a debate
one time in the skeptic stood up but he
said hopen do you realize when it rains
it releases heat into the atmosphere I
said yes sir I taught physics is called
the latent heat of condensation what's
your question he said well if it rained
enough to cover Mount Everest the heat
would cook the entire world I said you
are exactly right he said but don't you
think it rained enough to cover Mount
Everest I said no I've never said that
he said what do you think Mount Everest
was covered I said well I don't think
Mount Everest was there i don't think
the mountains even form till late in the
flood the Bible covers that in Psalm 104
we'll get into that later when we talk
about the mountain ranges forming on
this planet but no I don't think it
rained enough to cover Mount Everest I
don't know any Christians to teach that
I think what happened was the whole
world was covered with water but the
water didn't come from rain very little
water for the flood came from rain so
they built up this straw man that if it
rained enough to cover Mount Everest it
would cook the world and that's correct
but it's an artificial argument that's
not where the water came from there are
several theories about what caused the
flood in the days of Noah I'm gonna
share with you my theory in a few
minutes the Hoeven theory of what may
have caused it we call it that because I
don't want anybody else to have to take
the blame for it if it's wrong I will
take the blame if it's wrong and this
will not be super evangelistic it's just
a matter of getting you some scientific
evidence to put things together in your
mind and say wow maybe that's what
happened and give you an answer to some
of the skeptics and scoffers an atheist
we need to understand a couple things
the original creation was very different
the Bible says there was not only the
earth but there was water in the crust
of the earth under the crust of the
earth actually Psalm 24 says the earth
is the Lord's he founded it upon the
Seas that's an interesting verse the
earth was built on top of the watcher
Psalm 133 he gathereth the waters of the
sea together as an hiep he layeth of the
depth in storehouses what today is in
the oceans on the surface used to be in
the crust of the earth stored up in big
subterranean chambers psalm 136 he
stretched out the earth above the waters
better read that verse very carefully
that's given us a powerful clue of what
the original creation was like
and then the Fountains of the deep broke
open the water that used to be in the
crust went shooting to the surface when
the Fountains of the deep broke open the
Bible says in job 38 who shut up the sea
with doors when it break forth when it
issued out of the womb or tell what if
you've never seen a baby born when the
water comes breaking out of the womb it
is an amazing process one of my friends
was in college his wife was standing
there if kids cooking breakfast at the
kitchen kitchen in the kitchen and her
water broke just like she wet her pants
all over the floor her husband came
running in what happened lap and he
slipped and broke his arm and she had to
drive him to the hospital get his arm
set what a mess when babies are born I
delivered on my kids at home and when
the water issues out of the womb it is a
royal mess and the god he's telling us
here in the book of Job God is talking
here in Chapter 38 uh when that water
issued out of the earth it just burst
out of the earth and break who says and
goes on and says and break up for it my
decreed place and set bars and doors and
said hitherto shalt outcome but no
further and here shall thy proud waves
be stayed I believe the earth broke up
at the time of the flood and we still
have the scars all over the planet where
this happened they're called fault lines
I lived right by the San Andreas Fault
I've studied the Hayward Fault in New
Madrid fault the golden fault number my
fault but I've studied um okay there's
no question the earth is busted up into
plates and there's no question these
plates are moving and when they move it
causes tsunamis and earthquakes and
volcanoes there's no question that stuff
happens the question is when did this
happen to the earth I think it happened
about 4,400 years ago at the very
beginning of the flood an evolutionist
will say sue wait don't you see that's
proof of Pangaea these continents fit
together can't you see how South America
and Africa seem to be a fit well yeah a
hold on a minute how many of ever heard
of Pangaea they teaches in the textbooks
like some kind of fact you know all the
confidence used to fit together I say
guys now wait a minute there's a couple
things you ought to consider about this
Pangaea theory before you get too
excited first of all they'll say South
America and Africa seemed to fit yeah my
house and the neighbor's house would fit
too if you slid them together what does
that prove nothing it doesn't prove the
street used up in between them in the
houses slit apart okay it's a pure
coincidence the shape of these
continents is an absolute pure
coincidence based
on the water level the evidence they use
for continental drift is interesting
they'll say the shapes of the continent
seemed to fit similar fossils are found
in opposite sides of the ocean well that
may be true but it's also true those
same fossils are found literally all
over the world those fossils found all
over the world is just as much evidence
of a flood I mean a worldwide flood how
far could the dead animals float around
quite a ways right and then they'll say
there are magnetic reversals in the
mid-atlantic ridge when a hold on a
minute they don't tell you they shrank
Africa nearly thirty-five or forty
percent to make them fit do they they
don't tell you that Mexico and Central
America are gone hey senor que pasa
donde esta Mexico Panama Costa Rica
Guatemala they don't tell you that
Europe and South America were rotated
counterclockwise and Africa was rotated
clockwise to make them fit and they also
don't tell you what I think ought to be
obvious to a kindergartner did you know
if you took the water out of the oceans
you would notice there is dirt
underneath I mean the oceans actually
have a bottom to them how many knew that
already okay I mean they didn't have a
bottom okay so people say do you think
the earth was ever the continents were
ever connected I see well duh they're
still connected right now what do you
mean were they connected hello they're
still connected they've always been
connected the earth has a crust out of
the low places are full of water I
understand okay but